Final Project Proposal
Kristi Boardman, Cameron Costello, Will Skelly, Jake Burch

We are interested in developing one game and one simulation.

For our game we plan to implement a Tower Defense Game. A catapult is given random explosives to launch at enemies which will attempt to reach a tower by traveling across the screen. Each projectile will do something different when it lands, depending on what its type is, to be denoted by shape and/or color. Destroying enemies and/or surviving waves will earn points for the player, which can be used to upgrade the catapult. The tower will have a specific amount of health. Once its health is depleted, the game will end. Different types of soldiers will be sent to attack the tower. These will use Java Swing components and Java graphics. Event handlers will be utilized for mouse events, such as for launching projectiles. Threads will also be utilized for entities such as soldiers and catapult projectiles. We plan to make use of abstract classes and/or interfaces(e.g. Abstract class Soldier with more specific soldiers based on it and the same for the weapons).  This will also make use of threads and animation. We plan to use a database to hold all of the score information from the game as our programming feature from outside of this class.

The major milestones for our game include designing win and loss states (by 4/10/2020), programming the shapes and general movements of different enemies (by 4/10/2020), programming the shapes and general actions of different weapons (by 4/15/2020), changing the setting of the game from day to night and night to day throughout the timespan of the game (by 4/15/2020), designing interactions between the weapons and the enemies(like taking damage) (by 4/20/2020), and in-game event with a message depending on what happened. Our final milestone will be to create the embedded sql database (by 4/29/2020). We want to have our game finished by 4/30/2020. This game will not work if there are no enemies or weapons to destroy the enemies. The interactions between these two are also very important. We must have some trigger for winning and losing the game. 

For our simulation, we plan to simulate a supermarket.  A number of different types of shoppers with random shopping lists of items that the supermarket sells will attempt to complete their shopping at the supermarket. The shopper class will be an abstract class since the types of shoppers are very similar, but have important differences. Each shopper will get its own thread and attempt to purchase an available quantity of an item from the supermarket until that shopper’s wallet is depleted.  If the quantity of an item in stock at the supermarket reaches 0 and a shopper attempts to purchase more of that item, they will add more (unnecessary) items to their shopping list (in panic).  If the shopper runs out of money before they are able to complete their shopping, they may attempt to steal items, based on a predetermined predilection for stealing.  By some mechanism, they may get caught and go to jail. Our simulation will track shopper stats for each shopper as well as the total number of shoppers in jail, and ending quantities of merchandise.  This simulation will not use graphics, but will use threads to run several simulations concurrently, combining the results at the end.

Major milestones of our simulation include creating the four different types of shoppers (by 4/24/2020), creating the store object and its products (by 4/26/2020), program the interactions between the shoppers and the store (by 4/29/2020).This entire project will be completed before the due date on 5/1/2020. All of these milestones are very important to achieve because without them it is impossible to implement the next part of the simulation. A major step in making the program successful will be properly handling thread concurrency.

The 300 points of the project should be split to allow the tower defense game to be worth 175 points and the simulation to be worth 125 points. The points should be distributed mostly between the major milestones with the most important ones being worth more than the others. The rest of the points should be for syntax, proper documentation, and design.
